The library was my salvation for many reasons, and
I'll get back to that later on. But the first year I
worked wherever I could. I'd say I worked in
horticulture. I'd sometimes babysit for
professors. I was one of the early babysitters. I
can even remember the people I babysat for. Some of
them have just recently passed on. Who?
Draper from poetry. Do you remember him? I call him
Red, I believe. He was red-headed. They had a mean
little boy. Did they live on campus? They lived, I
think, in College Hills, I guess. Everybody lived
pretty close then and there. I did weekend work for
Professor Darnell in Daring. I remember he worked
me one whole afternoon where he was trimming his
pecan. I just had a pickup job. But in the second
semester of my freshman year, I got a pretty steady
employment at the poultry farm, which was
located... Well, this side of the research park at
that time. Oh, west of the tracks. Yeah, west on the
campus. And of course, nobody had cars. I mean,
there were no buses. And you didn't have a bike. No,
no bike. So you walked over. We walked a lot. But as I
said, I preferred to, as I said, do my studying in
short bursts. And if I had an hour between classes,
I always reworked my class notes. and studied
ahead, and I felt I was more efficient studying in
bursts. And as I said, that three or four hours in
forced CQ was just awfully hard sometimes to stay
awake at, because you couldn't talk to your
roommate. They'd catch you talking to your
roommate, and you were in trouble. You had to
study. And I think it probably was a good thing for
many students, because they didn't horse around.
And you had to be accountable for who you were at the
time. on your schedule. You had it posted on your
doors so the upperclassmen would know where you
were and so forth. And if you were not accounted
for, you'd probably hear about it. But I stole time
to some of my work situations, and then I
discovered the library, and particularly
between classes, I usually came to the library.
Did you have a special place in the library that was
your... Yeah, I guess they refurnished all of
that. It was up in that big second floor reference
room. A nice place to study. A cushion. But that was
pretty much the routine. How did you learn all of
the... lingo, the... Well, it was beat into you.
But I was, to this day, I'm that way. If I take a trip
or something, I read everything I can about it. And
I say this, I'm still looking for it. If you don't
have this YMCA book, you need to find it. Because
it's only a pamphlet, but it was very specific
about, you know, it had all the yells in it. I
memorized all those. I memorized the words to the
songs before I heard the tunes. And we had lots of
y'all practices where you learned these things.
And like I say, this thing where how you respond to,
you never say no. Sir, not having been informed for
the highest degree of accuracy, I hesitate to
articulate. That type of thing. And you're just
learning.
The other thing you had to learn as a freshman on
board, you had to know where every building was and
when it was built. And it had a good purpose to this
day.
Frank, Frank, question about buildings that
didn't exist. As I
said,
learning
the buildings made you helpful to any visitor on
the campus. You had no trouble directing to any
particular building on the campus. Not only did we
have to know the correct name, we had to know when it
was built. And in that first fall, how did you
communicate with family back home? Letters, just
strictly letters. About how often? Well, this was
the other thing. This is why I say don't plan on
going home. That's the worst thing you could do.
Just stay the first semester and go home
Christmas. I guess, I don't know, I guess I did go
home on Thanksgiving, I don't know. I wrote a lot of
letters to my mother, probably about weekly. And
did they write to you? Oh yes. Did you get any kush?
by mail? No, I don't think so. Some of the other guys
did. Did you all use that word then? Yeah, of
course, for dessert. I never had a sweet tooth. My
mother knew that. I never had much on dessert or
sweet things. She may have sent me some. I can't
remember, but I know it was always an occasion if
somebody else got some because they'd either have
to share it with you or else, but that was always an
interesting day. A mail call was You really looked
forward to mail. You had, don't guess at that time I
even had any female contacts. Male call. I didn't
tell them about mail call. There was not mail call.
You had a box. There was a sub box down here. What was
the name of the old Casey's on the corner by the
dorm? They'd had part of that at the post office. I
don't recall. Those were the charge boxes. When I
first came, you couldn't. They were all full. I had
to go to Northgate to get my mail. But mail from home
was just like in the military. You really, I mean,
you went by every day even though you didn't get one
or two things of leave. But I guess, as I said, I
didn't have a girlfriend at that time. And a lot of
the other guys didn't. A lot of the problems, I
think, that some of the people had in adjusting was
many of them had high school sweethearts. And it
was a sore process of breaking up that they were all
needed, you know, because of the distance
involved. Describe your impression of your first
Yale practice and first football game. Well, I
have to even go back to this. I guess that was enough
to
have scared me off of the place before I got down
here. As I recall, the school didn't start until
late September. It lasted until late January, all
semester. But I think even before I came down here,
maybe it was the first week or so, I can't remember.
We played Texas Tech at the Alamo Stadium in San
Antonio. And I went there, and I don't know how they
found out I was a freshman. I can't remember. Maybe
it was after he started. Anyway, I got a lot of abuse
there from upperclassmen. And, you know, hump it
and yell at me. It was all just. a big blur to me. I
didn't even know all the L's. I mean, I said I'd
studied them before, but it was different. But
anyway, that was my first, I guess, real contact
with some of the upperclassmen and their
behavior.
But that was pretty much it. I kept promising
myself, just hang on for a year. I mean, just
whatever it does to hang on, just, I mean, The
drop-off rate was horrific. I mean, I went
anywhere from a third to a half when I dropped out.
As you look back on that, about how many of the
students left because of grades and how many left
because of some other reason? Do you have any
guess? I don't know. People rationalize. It was
hard to admit that you were leaving because of the
core activities. They would... I guess most of
them pleaded academic problems, but it was pretty
tough here for most, a lot of students. I mean, the
professors were, you know, A's and B's weren't
very, very available. The professors weren't
pretty, a lot of professors, I'd say, had the core
spirit. I mean, they expected discipline in
there, too, and I guess some of them were former
Aggies. Did you have any faculty, any instructors
that first year that you now realize were quite
important to you? Oh, yes, very definitely. I had
one that, It was very important, Fred Bryson and
Dr. Abrams. Please, please. I worked with those
two guys. I mean, I just took one course, I think.
Dr. Abrams was a wonderful professor. And Fred
Bryson, I guess I took a course from him later on.
What made them special? The fact that you were a
human being, and you could talk to them. Did you
know Fred Bryson? He was a great jokester, as you
know. He somewhat embarrassed me years later. I'm
going aside here. Oh, that's all right. Years
later. He never forgot a student. I mean, years
later, he'd know you in a crowd. And that shows that
he did care. But anyway, I remember it was four or
five years after I graduated. And I was a county
agent. And they often brought us here for what they
call short courses to update you and various
things. And he was doing this. skill things with
budding and grafting. You know what a whip graft
is? You know where you split the two signs and you
put them together and you have to make them fit very
well and then you put wax on them and wrap them and
all that. Anyway, the fit is very important. And
this was five years or so after I was out from that
school. And he suggested you hold it up to the
light. I mean, this way, see if you see any light
coming through there because if you did, you
didn't have a good fit. And he said, of course, when
Faustia was here, you could see the dome of the
Academia.
I was embarrassed, but pleased that he still
remembered me. But he was very, those two were very
important, even though I had no intention at that
time of going into agriculture. Let me see if there
were any other professors that are particularly,
I had Darbor in animal science,
I said I didn't have too much contact with my
advisor, I would say that Adriens and Bryson kind
of became my informal advisors, and they were very
supportive. And then when I started working for
the poultry farm, the head of the department at
that time, I should remember his name, kindly old
gentleman, I'm sorry it escapes me now, but he was
understood my situation, and I had, you know,
taken care of poultry before in my life, and he was,
gave me this job over at the poultry farm, which I
enjoyed and worked over there. Do you remember
your first silver taps? Yes, I guess so. I mean,
what did it? Let me say that the first year was just
a, I don't know how to say it. Just almost
a dream, or a nightmare, I guess. You did, I was, my
objective was academics. I mean, I was determined
to do my academics in spite of the Corps type of
thing. And there's some people, I guess, who tried
to get out of the Corps. I guess the rule at that time
was that You could not, you had to be in the Corps the
first two years unless you had previous military
service or had a physical disability. And some of
them, I know I forgot, they were some people who
managed to get out of the Corps. They had another
bad term in that time. It was, and some of the locals
were the children of the faculty members and other
people lived there. Call them the day duckers,
heard that term. They had their own unit. They
attended ROTC classes, but they hadn't They were
very much supposedly looked down upon by the elite
corps members. I guess, unless you want to... I
didn't respond to your other question. What was it
now? I don't remember right now. You went to
football games. You got involved in everything.
You were required to go to football games.
Locally, you marched in, like they do now. And you
were required to go to corps games At that time, in
the Southwest Conference, the schedules were
firm for year after year after year. We played SMU,
TCU, University of Texas, Rice. When the games
were in Houston or Dallas or Waco or Austin, we
always went and we hitchhiked. It was always
hitchhiking. Do you remember any good
experiences from a court trip game? Good meaning
memorable, plus or minus? Well, again, it was sort
of a... I'm trying to think of the word. See when you
hitchhiked, you left like Friday after classes
and no telling when you'd get there. Sometimes
you'd get a direct route, sometimes you'd have to,
usually you'd have to get two or three routes. It
often was very late before you got there,
sometimes. And then you always had, before the
game, the games were usually in the afternoon, you
had the Corps parade in the morning. And then you
went straight to the football game. And, of
course, you stood the whole time there. Do you
remember any negative experiences involving
local people on a court trip? No, not really. I
haven't run into any. No, not at all. And
hitchhiking was a very positive thing. A&M had a
reputation. There was a procedure. You couldn't
upstream. That has a big meaning. And there was a
designated location in every town, including
here. And you just got in line. And any citizen, I
don't care who they were, with your uniform,
invariably almost picked you up. And we imagine
how many. There were several hundred that went to a
court trip on a weekend. We all got there. We
couldn't afford to go any other way. Maybe the
band, I guess the band and the team traveled by bus.
But the rest of us all had to get there on our own. Did
you hitchhike to home? Oh, yes, always. And my
mother hated it. She thought the worst could
possibly happen. I did have some interesting
experiences. But no, it was a part of my economy. I
could actually most times get there faster
hitchhiking than I could. What route did you
normally take hitchhiking? Well, since I said I'd
live close to Randolph Field, I'd get my parents
there. very reluctantly on my mother's part just
to dump me at the close to where the turnoff is to
Randolph Field on what we call the Austin Highway.
It's now 35, 81 I guess. And usually you'd catch a
ride pretty fast. Sometimes you'd have to go
through Austin. And then you'd have to get
yourself across town. And sometimes you'd get a
direct. But sometimes, more times than not, you'd
get a direct. And there were some few students and
veterans who were going home on weekends. And I'd
go out there on a Sunday morning, Sunday, no, I
guess usually on a Sunday afternoon if I went home.
As I said, I didn't go home very much. That was more
later that I started going home a little more. But I
preferred to hitchhike because it was more
efficient and saved that little bit of money. You
said some interesting experiences hitchhiking.
Oh, one time I got with, coming out of San Antonio, I
got with a guy who was, I sort of hoped he'd let me
drive, he was drinking while he was taking slugs
from the, he had a girlfriend over there, and I
somehow got out of that, he was going to take me
further, but I used some excuse, I had to get off or
something, but most of the time it was favorable,
you met people who were interesting, and But as I
said, it was the way to go. You
never had anybody attempt anything? No. I have not
yet had a single negative experience. This was the
only thing the guy was drinking, like that. I mean,
he was just a drunk. That's all I've said. And I
discovered that pretty soon. And as I said, I got
out of it. But I think all the other occasions were
positive. Later on, I guess as I became a junior or
senior, I
made connections with another student from the
general area who had a car and went home often and
I'd share gas and ink cost or something with him.
But hitchhiking was the way to go. That first
semester, your grades, how'd you do? I did pretty
well. I think I got, as I said, I exempted I don't
know. I haven't looked at my transcript. I made
mostly A's and B's, maybe one or two C's. Did you
think about ever going home, quitting, dropping
out? All the time. But I couldn't. I mean, that was
my darn decision. You know, if my parents had said,
you must go to A&M, I'm sure I would have quit. But,
you know, they tried to talk me out of it. I mean,
they didn't want me not to go to college. They said,
why don't you go to junior college? There was San
Antonio Junior College. Take you two years there,
and then you still want to go on, you know. you know
still could stay on home on the farm and you know I
was the only son and I guess in the back they had
maybe hoped that I'd take over the operation but I
didn't see too much future there but no I quitting
was but I I finally just made the resolve I mean
things got very bad many times it was not for the
academics I enjoyed the academics but the core
thing got pretty bad and I did you know think many
times that you know I could understand why others
quit but I kept resolving
Did you and your buddies ever attempt any pranks on
upperclassmen when you were a freshman? Some of my
colleagues did. I did everything to avoid
trouble. I mean, there was enough trouble coming
your way without looking for it. But there was a lot
of that going on. And as I said, I had to work. Those
that didn't have to work, I guess, had more time for
those kind of things. Do you remember... even in
your outfit or anywhere else, any good bull pranks
that are worthy of? Yeah, I remember two that were
pretty good. Every once in a while at
administration, there'd be some hazing problem
erupt in the public. And so there'd be a sudden
crackdown.
And the biggest fun, I guess, the students had was
with the KKs. You know the KKs? Campus cops. They
were always pulling pranks on them more than
anything else. I remember, I don't know which year
this was, but it was one of those cases where they
were really cracking down on hazing. The windows
were usually open and anybody who walked through
that area could tell when paddling was going on
just by the sound.
effort to drive, as I said, the K.K.' 's mad by tying
a pillow on the bedstead or frame of a bed and
paddling it. And they'd come, you know,
everybody, here they come, you know, type of
thing. And it was not unusual for
where the steps and the windows were arranged on
the dormitories, if a K.K. came into the building,
he'd have a dump of whole garbage can of water on
him. And, you know, They'd disappear. Everybody
would disappear. Nobody knew anything. And there
was this solidarity of not ratting was a big one
when something like that happened. Another,
well, this wasn't a prank, but it was an indication
of the esteem in which the students had for the KKs.
This is a true story. We had one of the guys in the
unit who was a real cowboy. And apparently, he came
from a fairly well-to-do family, and he could
afford to keep a horse down here. And he had a
Cadillac, a brand new Cadillac with a trailer
hitch and he pulled his horse around and
everything. And he came to class one day really
upset that he had gotten a ticket, a parking
ticket. And what he had done, he had bought a new
rope, and new ropes are pretty stiff. So what he did
in the parking lot, wherever he parked, he tied the
one end to a tree and the other end to the car and
pulled it tight to make it stretch overnight. And
the ticket didn't specify what it was for, so he,
you know, he went, they called the arresting, the
ticketing officer in. He said, well, he assumed
the car just didn't have any brakes. He had to take
it. I don't know if that story was true, but it was
sort of the, an indication of what the what the
students thought about the KKs at those days. In
your outfit, now listen, did your outfit have a
nickname? You asked me that. Oh, I can't remember.
I can't remember. In your outfit, did anybody ever
do any unusual, play any unusual good bull tricks
at mealtime on some software? Oh, I can't
remember. I know one thing that occasionally
happened in the That's always the food fights. I
don't know what precipitated those, but people
just started throwing food at each other, mostly
biscuits and stuff like that. Who had to clean up? I
don't know. You fish didn't have to clean that up?
No, not such, but a lot of Aggies worked as waiters.
All the waiters were. And a lot of the other work was
done by students. I mean, employment was given up.
All the waiters were students, which was a pretty
good job because you'd only work about 40 minutes
three times a day and you'd have to eat anyway. But
there were students used for janitorial purposes
and all of that all over. So it was sort of the policy
of the university was to give opportunities. I
think that grew out of the Depression years with
the project houses and all that. As far as you knew,
what were the best jobs for a student on campus?
What were they? Well, as I implied earlier, I got
very, very lucky the second year. In the sophomore
year, of course, I'd learned my way around. But I
still knew, and I didn't want, as I said, I didn't
want to get into the hazing of freshmen as I had been
hazed. And I... resolved to minimize my core
activities to the extent possible. I have to
indicate one thing that happened that second year
is that there was a huge increase in enrollment. We
had to triple up in the dormitory rooms which were
big enough for two. They actually put another cop,
three deckers, in rooms and it was very
unsatisfactory because you know when you're two
in a room or two people together, if you don't want
to have conversation, you just don't
participate, you just don't do anything, but if
your two roommates do, you know. It was not a very
good arrangement, and I had to get out of that, I
mean, and I started looking, the minute I came back
on my second year of my sophomore year, I started
looking for a job, and I stumbled into the Cushing
Library, and I got a job. And that was the happiest
thing that ever happened to me, or the best thing
that ever happened to me. How did that come about? I
just was looking for a job. Did you go over to the
library and ask? Yeah, I just walked up and asked.
Because I knew there were some students working
there, and I had no idea. I guess I probably learned
that this was a good situation, but I wasn't too
hopeful. But I was hired right away and stayed here
the next three years, working in the library.
Doing what? Well, you started off at the very
bottom. In those days, students did not have
access to the stacks. On the second floor of the old
library, Cushing Library, there was a big desk,
and there were usually a senior, not a senior
person, but a regular employee operating the desk
with the help of, depending on the time of day,
three or four student help. And you could work
during the day according to your schedule, or at
night, or whatever. And what the students would
do, would look up the book they'd want, and you'd
fill out a card with a reference, and you'd run
down, stacks to either run the elevator or usually
go and put, get the book, check it out to them, and
that's what you did. That was the lowest. But you
could even there get breaks to study. I mean, you
didn't have any book breaks, you know, that type of
thing. And the, you worked your way up. And I think
by my second and third year, I got to, in the reading
room, they had the reserve show. And somebody had
to operate the reserve books. Mm-hmm. And that was
a wonderful job because usually in the evening or
in the afternoons, I put most of my time in on
weekends. I worked every time I could on Saturdays
and Sundays. You'd have a flurry of activity at the
beginning of a period, like 7 o'clock, and then 10
or 11, turning it in. But in between, it was pretty
slow. Nobody there to bother you. And you could
really study, and that was the wonderful thing
about it. And I think the other thing that I really
appreciated about working in the library, I
learned how to use the library. Who was the
librarian in those days? Tommy Mayo? Was he still
around? Give me another name. I had very little
contact with him. I don't know. I do have one. I do
have a story about one of the incidences. Please
do. There was a Dr. Potter, I believe was his name,
in zoology, or zoology somewhere, and he produced
tomes, I mean, big textbooks, and he did his
research. And the routine at the library was, this
was when I was still working the stacks, was that
about, I think the library closed at 10 or 11,
whatever it was, and about 20 minutes before,
graduate students and faculty members had access
to the stacks, and a lot of them did their research
and they'd get off to a corner near the books that
they wanted and do their research. Well, it may
have been Mayo, but I don't know. It was the library
head at the time. It wasn't him. It was somebody
else. But anyway, I didn't know of Dr. Potter's
reputation, but anyway, I came through. Our job
was to
And I went through and did my, what were they, 11 or
12 stacks, you know, you went through the whole
thing warning people. Then you'd come back and
shut the light, check to see where anybody was. And
I went back a second time, and he was gone, so I put
the lights out. They had to hold me put out manually
and report it up to the supervisor that took care of
it. But I didn't know, Dr. Potter wanted to work a
little longer. And as soon as I left, he put the
lights back on and kept working. And about 2 or 3
a.m., he decided he was ready to quit. He couldn't
get out of the building. And he called the head
librarian to let him out. And I was told that story
the next day, and I thought, you know, I'm going to
be fired, right? And I mean, I think it was the head
librarian. I can't remember the name. Anyway, he
was very somber about it, you know. And I said, you
know... I thought the least I'd get by with would be
a lawsome job hanging after that. Anyway, he
chewed me out. Then after that, he laughed. He
said, this had happened before, more than once.
They thought they wanted to just give him a key.
Anyway, that was an NRA. But as I said, the
wonderful thing was, particularly in my master's
and doctorate program, I could use the library
like nobody else because I knew where things were
and how to use it and everything. And the library
must have been almost a sanctuary for the whole
campus. Oh, yeah, yeah. But I think, again,
students didn't use it so much as they should have.
I think, like the reserve thing was used because
there were firm assignments made, you know, read
this and so on, publish a book and so forth. But
students just going to the library to go to the
library, I mean, that was sort of... But they also
did not misuse it. No, no. They didn't. They
misrespected it. No mischief in the library. No,
no. And the reading room was quiet. You could hear a
pin drop. And occasionally, did a student slump
over the table and go to sleep? Oh, yeah. And I guess
that's where corporate. You had to get some sleep
somewhere. And it was hard to stay. I mean, as I
said, particularly when they roused you up at
night to do some foolish thing. sleep was just the
most precious commodity there was. A lot of
classes, students just could not stay awake. To
me, that was the worst aspect of the core life, was
the fact that you just never had enough sleep.
Never had enough sleep, and you'd see people
stretched out wherever they could. Right, now
we're about to finish this first tape. Describe
your feelings as you go home at the end of that
freshman year. Well, relief that I survived.
great relief that I survived, and a commitment to
go back and try to do better next time. And as I said,
my feeling about the Corps was that although these
things were done to me, I was resolved I would never
be a party to them. And I never, as I said, never once
picked up the paddle against anybody. I avoided
it. They'd happen, other than my colleagues did,
but I didn't. And I avoided it, somehow avoided it
completely.